PTE LMS

Writing section

Seesion 1

Summarize the text

1. Tea is the most famous drink after water, vast variety of tea such as green tea, jasemine tea, etc is mostly grown in few parts of Asian coutries because of it's specific agriculture characteristics such as right tropical climate, typical rainfall and temperature, geographical features and plently of land which has shade from other trees and vegetation - all this together fulfil the demands of the world wide customers.

2. While we are focusing on saving the planet we also need to preserve the depleting spicies of fishes as studies show that with increased demand in last 30 years the shallow parts of the ocean have been overfished, if this continous we are expecting extinction of many varities of fishes which could damage the ecosystem irreversibly.

3. By increase of 15 decibels of noise pollution in last 50 years its creating an absolutely different environment under the sea as compared to environment 50 years ago, this pollution is badly harming most of the sea creatures which in turn disrupting two-third of the basic biology of the planet.

4. Even after 6000 years of cultivating chillies there are many hidden facts of chillies on which scientists in Bolivia are still researching like heat and it's reaction on our body, for example the pain nerves that detect chemical in chillies is responsible for burning sensation our mouth, also the hottest  part is known as placenta and it defences against fungus with harmful microbes and hungry mammals.

Section 2

Essay writing

1. 
We are glad to read about the advancements happening in the medical field now a days. Well, it has it's own pros and cons to have old aged people living with us.
I personally feel it's great to have old people like our grandparents living with us. It provides emotional strength to the younger generation and we can always learn alot from them. As we see in this generation where both the parents are working, grand parents become the support system to the house by taking care of their grand children. 
Coming on the consequenses of increasing number of aged people in the society. First, it has direct impact on the increase in population and decrease in basic resources we have. Some studies have proved that if population keeps increasing at this pace then in next 30 years we would be left with 40% less resources availble for any person. For example, 40% less oxygen, water, etc which means we would be taking 6 breaths instead of 10 we take now, same will be the case with other resources. Second comes the generation gap, which makes kids difficult to share their thoughts with their closed one who are pretty old to them. Even in society we see people with advanced age tries to dominate their younger ones even if both of them are right. Then comes the medical expenses, which becomes the burdon to the family members, not only money but also taking care of them sometimes becomes an issue in the nuclear family.
Looking at the both sides of having old aged people at home, I would still thank the medical science who developed the techonology with which we can still be our loved ones for longer time.


2. 
I strongly agree that school should prepare pupils for university rather than for jobs. In school acedemics students study about basics of all the subject and in all the aspects along with few subjects in depth. However, this is not the case with the schools now a days.
I persoanlly know some teachers who ask the students just to mug up the answers to score the good marks without giving explaining them the topic. This sometimes restricts the child's brain to think beyond what is told to them. It's school syllabus which builds up the base of education for every child. Schools are just money making factories today which don't develop children brain instead constructs it with the thoughts that if they mug up answers, and score well then they would get good jobs. Whereas it's school responsibility to prepare student with good basic knowledge in all subjects and prepare them for higher education in universities. Students should also be prepared for entrance exams for the universities.
If ever I get a chance then it's my dream to start with a primary school and go up till higher senior secondary school where education will be the focus instead of money and children will get the freedom to bring up their owns thoughts and all the theory lectures will be followed by a practical class. I wish my dream come true some day.


Summarize the text

More number of individuals today are migrating from their countries to the more wealthier countries because of inequlity they face due their location, this discrimination has increased in the 21st centuary, University of Maryland shares the study which tells us that difference between the incomes in various countries is the primary parameter for discrimination and some policymakers should come in picture to aid same in developing countries.

Class work

Oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico happened when million barrels of oil was mixed with million gallons of corexit (chemical dispersant), due to which there were severe health consequences on the locals in terms of sickness, even the workers involved in cleanup operations were crippled which even doctors couldn't cure.

Rise of illegal wildlife trading threats the extinction of many species, this trading is run by international networks for thousands of dollars, however in case of legal trading animals and plants are sold as food, pets, etc.


